Code Critique

DESIGN CRITIQUE
1.  To start with, as per the requirements of the project, the design follows MVC architecture. 
2.  The program starts with main () calling the controller. The controller takes in put at all the times. 
3.  The validations to the input are performed in the controller which better. 
4.  The controller also takes care of dispatching the operations to either the view or the model based on the user input. 
5.  Even though this is as per standards, the controller does not pass much information to the model or the view for it to independently perform the operations. 
6.  For example, to know the value and composition of the portfolio, the controller only validates certain inputs and passes the control to the view.
7.  Even though it is very difficult to completely eliminate the coupling between modules, efforts could have been made to reduce the coupling between some of the modules. 
8.  For example, the buy or sell is completely dependent on the cached portfolio model and the API call to the Alpha Vantage site. 
9.  The operation fails with run time stack errors, and this is not a good approach. 
10. This could have been made better by removing the dependency and making a fail-safe approach if the portfolio fetch or the API calls fail.
11. The GUI view on the other hand acts as a controller itself. 
12. The GUI view decides what input to get from the user and decides what operations to perform. 
13. This design is not optimal as the view has access to the model object which can be easily manipulated. 
14. This can be rectified by following the Command Callback design flow.

IMPLEMENTATION CRITIQUE
1.  One of the major uses of interfaces is to hide the data from the client code. 
2.  Here, most of the classes do not use interface and the clients directly access the class using its implementation object. 
3.  This defies one of the SOLID principles and does not hide the information. 
4.  For example, the portfolio class itself doesn’t have an interface and hence the client accessing the data using its implementation object has access to its data. 
5.  This could have been made better by creating interfaces and making those classes implement the interfaces. 
6.  Another flaw that I noticed is, the recursive calls are made to the previous functions if the back option is called rather than returning to the previous function. 
7.  This will result in stack overflow at some point in time. 
8.  I also noticed that the model performs a lot more than holding the data like performing IO operations, etc. 
9.  This could have been easily moved to the controller which could have been served as a better design. 
10. While perusing the code, I noticed that the code uses GOOGLE share as a base check and determines if the market is closed or not. 
11. Even though this serves the purpose in most of the cases, if I try to buy a share that exists before GOOGLE, I will still be notified that market was closed on that date which is not right. 
12. This could have been corrected by using the stock name that user enters rather than relying on a default stock.

DOCUMENTATION CRITIQUE
1. Almost all the interface, class and method are well documented and furnished with details. 
2. The single line comments provided over the methods are well enough to understand what the function does overall. 
3. But that could have been made better by providing some more details with an additional one or two lines. 
4. Also, I found some of the public methods under Portfolio class are undocumented which could have been avoided by provided some comments.

DESIGN/CODE STRENGTH
1. Cohesion of a method or module is highly maintained and appreciable. 
2. For example, the create portfolio model only takes care of creating the portfolios. 
3. The buy and sell stocks method takes care only of those defined purposes. 
4. This serves the first principle called Single Responsibility of the SOLID principles. 
5. Because of this, I was able to easily re-use methods for implementing the re-balance feature which I see as a strength of this design and implementation.

DESIGN/CODE LIMITATION
1. When a user tries to create a portfolio, the user is not able to name their portfolio. 
2. I see this as a limitation to the design because of two reasons. 
3. One is, as a user, I should be able name by own portfolio. 
4. The second point is, as I mentioned earlier, a new portfolio is created for every buy and/or sell transaction. 
5. Because of this, as a user, I will not be able to differentiate between which portfolio belongs to which timeline unless I open and read the compositions.


CHANGE THAT I WANT TO REQUEST
1. For every buy and/or sell transaction, a new portfolio is created. 
2. Even though this design is useful in successfully maintaining the history of purchases independently, this defeats the meaning of a portfolio. 
3. Every transaction in a portfolio should be contained within the portfolio itself. 
4. This is one change I would ask my clients to make.
